---
title: Myths about migration
author: Nikola Sander
layout: post
permalink: /myths
tags:
  - international migration
  - myths
---
**Myth-busters update, 28 March 1014:** [Rising tide of migration is a myth, say global stats!](http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn25311-rising-tide-of-migration-is-a-myth-say-global-stats.html#.U0Be_FfJEgj)
<br>
<br>
It's fair to say that demographers, sociologists and economists could have done a better job quantifying and projecting international migration. As a result of differences in definitions and measures across countries, there is as yet no solid empirical evidence about the number of people who move across the globe over a given period of time.
<br>
<br>
So, people put their spin on things to depict immigrants as a treat to labour markets, identity, culture and well-being. Population growth in Africa is expected to lead to mass migration to Europe, while the positive economic impacts of migration are often downplayed.
<br>
<br>
Together with my colleagues, I'm trying my best to let the facts speak for themselves. Here are some of the myths about international migration:
<br>
<br>
1) The intensity of global international migration has been rising continuously since the early 1990s. Our flow data suggest that intensities have remained stable.
<br>
<br>
2) Immigration to Europe is set to increase as a result of population growth in sub-Saharan Africa. Today, almost all African migrants come from Northern Africa (e.g. Morocco), where population growth is much slower.
<br>
<br>
3) Waves of immigration trigger anti-immigrant attitudes in host countries. Countries like France where anti-immigrant rhetoric has been thriving record much lower net gains from immigration than other European countries.
<br>
<br>
4) Climate change will result in mass migration to the developed world. Science suggests that most people will move within their own country, and those who can afford to move across continental borders tend to be well educated.